ok so these are sort of our sci-fi
glasses like definitely the yellow
goggles filter out specific wavelengths
of light to help them see if any of the
corals here do fluoresce with a regular
dive torch this is what you see but with
blue light and yellow goggles soon as
you pick the torch and it just picks out
different spots of coral I've never seen
anything like it it reminds me of a
1980s disco
[Music]
this extraordinary phenomenon is
produced by fluorescent pigments found
in the tissues of a variety of coral
species I think the fish know why corals
fluoresce is a scientific mystery but it
might be one way they've evolved to deal
with the intensity of the sunlight
that's bombarding them the fluorescent
pigments might be screening out some
wavelengths of light acting almost like
a sunscreen
these freshmen pigments Raschi
protection the coral algae from sun
damage then it means that there's a very
good chance that these coronal were
ain't healthy the large amount of
fluorescence could be another reason why
these corals are coping in these hot
waters
[Music]